2. Formulate a VLSI mixed mode placement with the following properties. Demonstrate/prove
your claimed properties.
2.1. The formulation handles global and local placement density constraints.
2.2. The formulation handles hundreds of huge-sized block cells as well as millions of tiny standard
cells.
2.3. The formulation handles timing constraints.



We formulate the mixed mode placement as follows:

$$
\begin{align}
\min_{\mathbf v} f(\mathbf v)&= \tilde W(\mathbf v) + \lambda D(\mathbf v) &(1)\\
\tilde W_{e_x} &= w_{e_x}(\frac{\sum_{i,j\in e}x_i \exp(x_i/\lambda)}{\sum_{i,j\in e}\exp(x_i/\lambda)} - \frac{\sum_{i,j\in e}-x_i \exp(-x_i/\lambda)}{\sum_{i,j\in e}\exp(-x_i/\lambda)}) &(2)\\
\end{align}
$$

* Solution is $\mathbf{v} = \{x_1, \dots, x_n, y_1, \dots, y_n\}$, the coordinates of $n$ cells.
* Decompose the region into $n\times n$ rectangular grids (bins) denoted as $B$.
* We use Weighted-Average Wirelength Model for wirelength smoothing.

#### 2.1

* $D(\mathbf v)$ is the density function, and $\lambda$ is the penalty factor.
* A density penalty function helps incorporate the placement density constraints
* Follow by the RePlace paper, we formulate the density function as sum of global potential (handles the global density constraints) and local potential (handles the local density constraints).

$$
D(\mathbf v) = D^{global}(\mathbf v) + D^{local}(\mathbf v) \quad (3)
$$

* In global density function, just as in ePlace, we view all the cells as electric charges.
* In the end, the system reaches the electrostatic equilibrium state zero charge density over the entire placement region, while the total potential energy is reduced to 0.

$$
D^{global}(\mathbf v) = \sum_{i\in V}D^{global}_i(\mathbf V)= \sum_{i \in V} q_i \psi_i(v)\quad (4)
$$

* The potential integral is set to zeros thus Poisson's equation has unique solution.

$$
\begin{align}
\begin{cases}
\nabla \cdot \nabla \psi(x,y) &= -\rho(x,y) &\\
\hat n \cdot \nabla\psi(x,y) &= 0, (x,y) \in \partial R, \\
\iint_R \rho(x,y) &= \iint_R \phi(x,y) = 0
\end{cases}
(5)
\end{align}
$$

* For the local density, we use a constraint-oriented local-density penalty factor for each bin to provides more repulsive forces for overflowed bins, handling the local density constraints.

#### 2.2

The formulation works well for the small standard cells. However, for the large macros, the overall electric force exerted on each macros are so large. Thus large macros tend to oscillate during optimization, leading to convergence failure. To solve problem, we introduce some kind of "inertia". As large macros should have large inertial compared to the small cells, thus the same electric force should cause less movement (update) for large macros. We give each cell a "mass" $m_1, m_2, \dots, m_n$ proportional to its area, and the update are divided by a factor inversely proportional to this mass. This can prevent large macros from oscillating. In conclusion, the formulation hundreds of huge-sized block cells as well as millions of tiny standard.

$$
\begin{align}
\nabla f(\mathbf v)& = \nabla W(\mathbf v) + \lambda \nabla D(\mathbf v) \\
&= (\frac{\partial W}{\partial x_1}, \frac{\partial W}{\partial y_1} \cdots) - \lambda (q_1 \xi_{1_x} / m_1,q_1 \xi_{1_y}/m_2, \cdots)^T + \lambda \nabla D^{local}(\mathbf v)
\end{align}
$$

#### 2.3

Timing constraints are naturally handled by giving weights to each wirelength estimation. The factor $w_{e_x}$ can be set larger for path that are more critical. During each update steps, nets with higher weights tends to be updated to smaller values. In conclusion, this formulation handles timing constraints by giving weights to each net.