https://podcastnotes.org/huberman-lab/leverage-dopamine-to-overcome-procrastination-optimize-effort-huberman-lab/

#### 概括

Foundational Practices: Focus on quality sleep, non-sleep deep rest (NSDR), and proper nutrition to increase the baseline level of dopamine and restore dopamine reserves. Exposure to sunlight: In the morning, expose yourself to sunlight for at least 5-10 minutes, facing the Eastward towards the sun on a clear day, to increase cortisol and dopamine levels. Movement: Incorporate resistance or cardiovascular training into your routine to maintain elevated levels of baseline dopamine achieved through regular exercise. Cold water exposure: Take a brief dip in cold water up to the neck for 30 seconds to 2 minutes to increase baseline dopamine levels for at least 2-5 hours. Start warmer than you think you need to and ease into it over a few days. Do not expose yourself to cold water after strength or hypertrophy training. Tyrosine supplementation: Consider taking a low dosage of l-tyrosine (250-500mg) 30-60 minutes before a cognitive or physical task to increase baseline levels of dopamine for extended periods of time and improve performance. Avoid excessive dopamine-releasing behaviors or substances: Be mindful of how often you engage in behaviors or substances that stimulate dopamine release and how many you stack together. Guard and protect activities you enjoy: Avoid attaching too many dopamine-releasing behaviors or substances to activities you enjoy to protect their intrinsic value. Overcoming procrastination: If you find yourself procrastinating, try doing something tangential or more painful to quickly pull yourself out of a procrastination state.
